Adding a How-To for authoring Kubernetes resources (#1048)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/how-to-kubernetes-resource/index.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Use a Kubernetes resources in your application"

> linkTitle: "Use a Kubernetes resources in your application"

Reviewer: This linkTitle is too long. It should not spill over into multi-lines wherever possible. Please match this to similar link titles: 
![image](https://github.com/radius-project/docs/assets/54363786/4a0ab5e9-2fc6-44aa-a081-08c10de843b5)

description: "Learn how to use a Kubernetes resources in your application"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["Kubernetes"]
---

This how-to guide will provide an overview of how to:

- Leverage Kubernetes resources in your Radius Application directly.

## Prerequisites

- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

> ## Step 1: Start with a container

Reviewer: I think the step of adding a Radius container would be better below step 3. As written there's an implicit assumption that you have to import radius and define a container before you add Kubernetes resources. By putting it after the Kubernetes resource and instead framing the step as "Add a container and use the secret you just defined", it will be clearer that they are separate.

Begin by creating a file named `app.bicep` with a Radius [container]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers" >}}):

{{< rad file="snippets/app.bicep" embed=true >}}

## Step 2: Define the Kubernetes provider

> Add the following import statement and define your Kubernetes [`namespace` property]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#namespace-mapping" >}}) as well as the [`kubeConfig` property](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeconfig.v1/). The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of your Bicep file, import the `kubernetes` provider and add its configuration. The `namespace` property determines where to deploy Kubernetes resources by default. The `kubeConfig` property is not currently used and can remain as an empty string (`''`):
```

Updated the step to better describe the provider and the properties. Note the namespace page you linked to is a separate concept.

`kubeConfig` is leveraged by Radius for information needed to build connections with the user's remote Kubernetes clusters:

{{< rad file="snippets/app-kubernetes.bicep" embed=true marker="//KUBERNETES" >}}

## Step 3:  Add a Kubernetes secret resource

> A [Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) is an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data such as a password, a token, or a key. To leverage it in a Radius Application you simply need to define the it as a resource and establish its usage in your container resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a [Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) to your `app.bicep` file. This secret will contain a small amount of sensitive data such as a password, a token, or a key:
```

{{< rad file="snippets/app-kubernetes.bicep" embed=true marker="//APPLICATION" >}}

> > Note to see a list of all available Kubernetes resources visit the [Kubernetes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/overview#resource-library" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Refer to the [Kubernetes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/overview#resource-library" >}}) for additional information about available types.
```

## Step 4: Deploy your Radius Application

Deploy your application with the `rad` CLI:

```bash
rad run ./app.bicep -a demo
```

Your console output should look similar to:

```
Building ./app.bicep...
Deploying template './app.bicep' for application 'demo' and environment 'default' from workspace 'default'...

Deployment In Progress... 

...                  demo            Applications.Core/containers

Deployment Complete

Resources:
    demo            Applications.Core/containers

Starting log stream...
```

> Navigate to the `Container Metadata` tab and the `Environment variables` section, there will be row dedicated to your Kubernetes secret object:

Reviewer: Make sure to instruct the reader how to get to this screen. How do they navigate to Container Metadata?

> <img src="./demo-secret-object.png" alt="Screenshot of Radius Demo app `Environment variables section`" width="600"/>

Reviewer: Please use the image shortcode that was added a few months ago instead of raw HTML

> Users can also prove the deployed Kubernetes secret was created by using `kubectl`, and running the following command with your specific pod name:

Reviewer: Here you've switched from "Your ...." and speaking to the reader, to speaking about the reader in the 3rd person. Please update and check the rest of the document to make sure you're consistent.

```bash

> kubectl describe pod demo-xxxx-xxxx -n default-demo

Reviewer: Instead of describing the pod, which is secondary to the Kubernetes secret, I'd instead describe the secret directly.

Reviewer: You could even add a `rad deploy` step and `kubectl describe secret` set of steps before you even add the Radius container and describe how to leverage the secret. That way the guide has two parts: how to define and prove you can add Kubernetes resources, and then how to use the secret in a Radius application.

```

Your console output should contain the following section:

```
Containers:
  demo:
    Container ID:   containerd://xxxxxx
    Image:          ghcr.io/radius-project/xxxxxx
    Image ID:       ghcr.io/radius-project/xxxxx
    Port:           3000/TCP
    Host Port:      0/TCP
    State:          Running
      Started:      Mon, 19 Feb 2024 18:30:03 +0000
    Ready:          True
    Restart Count:  0
    Environment:
      SECRET:  my-secret-value
    Mounts:
```

## Cleanup

To delete your Kubernetes resources created you'll need to run the following command:

```bash

> kubectl delete all --all -n default-demo

Reviewer: This isn't the correct way to delete a Radius container and will leave your cluster in a corrupted state. A user will instead need to run `rad app delete` for the Radius resources and then `kubectl delete` for the remaining resources.

```
Building ./app.bicep...
Deploying template './app.bicep' for application 'demo' and environment 'default' from workspace 'default'...

Deployment In Progress... 

...                  demo            Applications.Core/containers

Deployment Complete

Resources:
    demo            Applications.Core/containers

Starting log stream...
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the Radius demo container. Then navigate to the `Container Metadata` tab and the `Environment variables` section which are located near the bottom of the Radius demo webpage, there will be row dedicated to your Kubernetes secret object:

{{< image src="demo-secret-object.png" alt="Screenshot of Radius Demo app `Environment variables section" width="700px" >}}

You can also prove the deployed Kubernetes secret was created by using `kubectl`, and running the following command with your specific secret name:

```bash
kubectl describe secret my-secret  -n default-demo
```

Your console output should contain the following section:

```
Name:         my-secret
Namespace:    default-demo
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>

Type:  Opaque

Data
====

> key:            15 bytes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This seems like a remnant of an existing secret

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

## Step 1: Define the Kubernetes provider

Begin by creating a new file named `app.bicep`. At the top of your file, import the `kubernetes` provider and add its configuration. This allows you to define and deploy Kubernetes resources within Bicep.
- The `namespace` property determines where to deploy Kubernetes resources by default.
- The `kubeConfig` property is not currently used and can remain as an empty string (`''`):

{{< rad file="snippets/app-kubernetes.bicep" embed=true marker="//KUBERNETES" >}}

## Step 2:  Add a Kubernetes secret resource

Add a [Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) to your `app.bicep` file. This secret will contain a small amount of sensitive data such as a password, a token, or a key:

{{< rad file="snippets/app-kubernetes.bicep" embed=true marker="//SECRET" >}}

> Refer to the [Kubernetes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/overview#resource-library" >}}) for additional information about available types.

## Step 3: Add a container and use the secret you just defined

> Add a  Radius [container]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers" >}}) to your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a Radius [container]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers" >}}) to your application:
```

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Use a Kubernetes resources in your application"

> linkTitle: "Add resources in your application"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Add Kubernetes resources"
```

description: "Learn how to use a Kubernetes resources in your application"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["Kubernetes"]
---

This how-to guide will provide an overview of how to:

- Leverage Kubernetes resources in your Radius Application directly.

## Prerequisites

- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

## Step 1: Define the Kubernetes provider

> At the top of your Bicep file, import the `kubernetes` provider and add its configuration. The `namespace` property determines where to deploy Kubernetes resources by default. The `kubeConfig` property is not currently used and can remain as an empty string (`''`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Begin by creating a new file named `app.bicep`. At the top of your file, import the `kubernetes` provider and add its configuration. This allows you to define and deploy Kubernetes resources within Bicep.
- The `namespace` property determines where to deploy Kubernetes resources by default.
- The `kubeConfig` property is not currently used and can remain as an empty string (`''`):
```

> `kubeConfig` is leveraged by Radius for information needed to build connections with the user's remote Kubernetes clusters:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< rad file="snippets/app-kubernetes.bicep" embed=true marker="//SECRET" >}}

> Refer to the [Kubernetes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/overview#resource-library" >}}) for additional information about available types.

## Step 3: Add a container and use the secret you just defined

Add a  Radius [container]({{< ref "guides/author-apps/containers" >}}) to your application:

{{< rad file="snippets/app-kubernetes.bicep" embed=true marker="//APPLICATION" >}}

## Step 4: Deploy your Radius Application

Deploy your application with the `rad` CLI:

```bash
rad run ./app.bicep -a demo
```

Your console output should look similar to:

```
Building ./app.bicep...
Deploying template './app.bicep' for application 'demo' and environment 'default' from workspace 'default'...

Deployment In Progress... 

...                  demo            Applications.Core/containers

Deployment Complete

Resources:
    demo            Applications.Core/containers

Starting log stream...
```

> Navigate to the `Container Metadata` tab and the `Environment variables` section which are located near the bottom of the Radius demo webpage, there will be row dedicated to your Kubernetes secret object:

Reviewer: Could you add a step for how a user navigates to the container?

{{< image src="demo-secret-object.png" alt="Screenshot of Radius Demo app `Environment variables section" width="700px" >}}

You can also prove the deployed Kubernetes secret was created by using `kubectl`, and running the following command with your specific secret name:

```bash
kubectl describe secret my-secret  -n default-demo
```

Your console output should contain the following section:

```
Name:         my-secret
Namespace:    default-demo
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>

Type:  Opaque

Data
====
key:            15 bytes
my-secret-key:  15 bytes
```

## Cleanup

To delete your Radius specific Kubernetes resources you'll need to run:

```bash
rad app delete -a demo
```

> 
> Your console output should look similar to:
> 
> ```
> Application demo deleted
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For small confirmations you don't need to show the output

Once your Radius Application has been deleted you can delete the remaining Kubernetes resources you created by running:

```bash
kubectl delete all --all -n default-demo
```

Your console output should look similar to:

```
pod "demo-74794c5b55-jw4db" deleted
service "demo" deleted
deployment.apps "demo" deleted
replicaset.apps "demo-74794c5b55" deleted

> ```

Reviewer: This doesn't look like the correct output. Could you update this step to just delete the secret instead of all the resources inside of the default-demo namespace?

Author: @AaronCrawfis Hey funny enough I just reran it and it seems like `rad app delete -a demo` deletes all the resources in the namespace `default-demo` where the secret is living so not sure we even need this step.

Author: Is there a specific resource or namespace the user should be deleting?

Reviewer: If you've deleted your application, then there should only be the secret remaining in the namespace afterwards. If you're seeing the pod/service/deployment/replicaset all being deleted, then the application deletion didn't work correctly.

Author: When you have time I'd love to do a demo on this and figure out what's missing

> > Note in most cases you'll be able to run [`rad app delete`]({{< ref rad_application_delete >}}) however Radius does not currently delete Kubernetes resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [`rad app delete`]({{< ref rad_application_delete >}}) does not delete non-Radius resources that are not directly part of a Radius Application, such as Kubernetes resources. These resources require an additional cleanup step.
```
